welcome my name is Gary Jones from
switch on to lighting comm I'm going to
talk to you about dining-room lighting
and give you some tips on lighting in
the dining room house designs can vary
considerably and the dining room can be
presented in different formats some
houses have formal dining rooms for
entertaining
somehow kitchen diners or splitters can
have a lounge diner lighting in the
dining room ambient light when lighting
a dining room the main light source will
be over the dining table dining tables
come in all shapes and sizes circular
tables tend to lend themselves to a
central pendant light pendant lights
should be hung about 60 centimetres
above the table any lower and you will
find people have to peer around the
pendants each other long tables are
suited to track fittings bar spots or
multiple pendants if you have a
multi-purpose dining room you need to
think about creating lighting zones for
example you want to be able to turn off
the kitchen for us and light darkening
the kitchen area and over the dining
table have a crisp beam of halogen
lighting this technique is regularly
used in theatrical lighting task
lighting in the dining room seeing what
you are eating is important but for some
households dining tables double up as a
study or hobby area so it's important to
have the ability to create a moody
effect during dinner and a well-lit area
when working dimmer switches provide a
simple and flexible lighting control
solution the finally accent lighting
wall lights and wall washers and
highlight features in the room table
lamps on side boards or floor lamps in
the corner of the room can add interest
if you have a multi-purpose dining room
you can utilize the array of various
light sources to act as accent lighting
and the carry the lights on kitchen work
sisters are a very good example
thank you for listening my name is Gary
Jones from switch on to lighting comm
for a free email transcript of this
video go to www.imtcva.org